ANSWERS
How different is a Merger from Acquisitions? Discuss their distinguishing characteristics
Answer:
Both may sound similar, but there are differences between the two concepts. A merger is the joining of two separate legal entities to establish a new combined legal entity. An acquisition occurs when one firm (the acquirer) purchases another company (the target) and assumes control of its assets and operations. The two companies can continue to operate as independent legal entities after the acquisition, or the acquiring corporation can simply absorb the target company. Acquisitions are more prevalent than actual mergers because when organizations consolidate, one party usually has the upper hand or has more to benefit.
For merger;
It is a corporate transaction in which two existing, independent firms join forces to form a new, single legal entity. Mergers are entirely consensual. Both companies are typical of comparable size and scope, and both stand to benefit from the transaction. Mergers occur for a number of reasons. These may enable each business to enter a new market, sell a new product, or provide a new service. They can also cut operational expenses, improve management, adjust pricing strategies, and reduce tax responsibilities. Companies eventually merge to improve their size, scale, and revenue. In other words, mergers enable businesses to make more money.
Mergers are frequently initiated and facilitated by an investment banker. They source transactions, evaluate firms, estimate outcomes, and ensure that both companies' houses are in order (a process known as due diligence). Corporate lawyers also manage M&A transactions, ensuring that the transaction conforms with federal and state requirements, among other things. Mergers are typically paid for using cash, equity (stocks), or both. When two firms merge, shareholders in each company receive stock in the new company equivalent to the value of their previous stock.
Example: 
•	Ecobank merged with Trust Bank in 2000;
•	Access Bank merged with Inter-Continental Bank in 2011;
•	The merger of Airtel with Millicom International Cellular.
For Acquisition;
Acquisitions are frequently amicable, which means that both companies agree to and negotiate the conditions of the deal. Yet, the terms "acquisition" and "takeover," which can be hostile, are occasionally used interchangeably. In other words, one firm may seize control of — or acquire — another by purchasing a majority ownership in the target company against the intentions of the target company's board of directors or management. Investment bankers or lawyers are frequently used to coordinate acquisitions. Internal teams that handle the process are common in large corporations, including private equity firms.
Example:
•	Google’s $50 million acquisition of Android in 2005
•	Pfizer’s $90 billion acquisition of Warner-Lambert in 2000
•	Anheuser-Busch InBev’s $100 billion acquisition of SABMiller in 2016

Examine five factors that will warrant foreign entities to enter into mergers and acquisitions
Answer:
The factors are;
1.	Geographical Diversification:  It has been a significant value-driver in M&A over the years, and it speaks to reason: why start a firm from scratch in a foreign country when you can acquire an existing cash-generating entity and utilize it as a platform for your own company's growth in that country?
Examples: A merger between HABYT, the largest European co-living company, and HMLET, the largest Asia Pacific participant in communal living, could be an example. Following this merger, HABYT became the world's largest co-living company. The Spanish bank Santander, which has bought banking chains in nine countries outside of Spain to become one of the world's largest retail banking organizations, is arguably the most successful example of this.
2.	Market share: Market share purchases may be the most typical motivation for M&A transactions; corporations are continually looking at where they stand in their industries relative to their peers, therefore CEOs are always thinking about market share acquisitions. Of course, having too much market share raises the ire of antitrust agencies.
Examples: Practically every huge retail bank you know has become enormous by the acquisition of smaller regional retail banks, giving them a power that notoriously makes them 'too big to fail'.
3.	New Technology/Expertise: Industry change and companies that do not adapt will perish. As a result, firms are frequently on the hunt for other organizations that might provide them with new technology and skills. As the energy shift proceeds over the next decade, we may expect many of the oil and gas companies to begin investing in renewable energy firms, for example.
Examples: During the last decade, Google has purchased over 30 artificial intelligence (AI) firms, accumulating a diverse set of capabilities in a technology that is poised to become enormously significant in the coming years.
4.	Taxation: Unsurprisingly, tax is one area where corporations are reluctant to confess that they have engaged in M&A to avoid taxes (note: avoid, not evade). It may not sit well with customers to learn that a company is blatantly dodging taxes, but rest assured: this is one of the most typical reasons for M&A. The express motive, on the other hand, is one of the least cited. The premise is that a cash flow-positive company buys a company with carry forward tax losses in order to lower its own tax burden.
5.	Opportunism: Businesses aren't always looking for an acquisition when one comes knocking. "Opportunistic" is a phrase that CEOs like to use because it implies that the transaction is a "once-in-a-lifetime deal." An opportunistic deal entails purchasing a firm for less than its true value. JP Morgan's 'fire sale' agreement for Bear Stearns in 2008, which it allegedly acquired at a bargain price, is an example of a deal that discovered a company rather than the other way around. 
From your knowledge of foreign direct investments (FDIs), which of the two will you recommend to an international business manager? Merger or Acquisition, and Why.
Answer;
A corporate merger or acquisition is a powerful strategy for company expansion and new revenue streams that can boost bottom-line profitability. Many mergers and acquisitions benefits, ranging from increased market access and reduced market rivalry to improved performance and lower production costs, make consolidation a lucrative and appealing prospect for businesses. 
With my knowledge of FDIs, I will recommend a Merger to an international business manager because;
•	It increases market share: When companies merge, the new company gains a larger market share and gets ahead in the competition.
•	It reduces the cost of operations: Companies can achieve economies of scale, such as bulk buying of raw materials, which can result in cost reductions. The investments in assets are now spread out over a larger output, which leads to technical economies.
•	It avoids replication: Some companies producing similar products may merge to avoid duplication and eliminate competition. It also results in reduced prices for the customers.
•	It expands business into new geographic areas: A company seeking to expand its business in a certain geographical area may merge with another similar company operating in the same area to get the business started.
•	It can prevent the closure of an unprofitable business: Mergers can save a company from going bankrupt and also save many jobs.

Examine how the many M&As in the telecom sector have impacted the economy of Ghana
Answer:
M&A activity in Ghana's telecommunications business has been prominent. The transformational process of Ghana's telecom industry has made it a critical component of development. Traditionally, monopolies, cheap tariffs, and inefficiencies characterized Ghana's telecom industry. On this basis, the Government of Ghana (GOG) agreed to sell a stake in Ghana Telecom (GT) to Telekom Malaysia Berhad. When the contract expired three years later, GOG did not renew it because of Telekom Malaysia Berhad partners' failure to reach the operating targets agreed upon in the Telecoms Security Act (TSA). The contract abrogation with G-Com Limited by the Government of Ghana was an example of a merger deal gone wrong due to political and operational issues, as well as the litigation that ensued, resulting in the Government of Ghana paying huge international arbitration costs awarded in favour of G-Com Limited.
In 2007, the Ghanaian government sold 70% of the larger Ghana Telecom to Vodafone for $900 million in cash and debt-free terms. GT fixed line operations, cellular operations (OneTouch), broadband operations, GT call Centre (Exzeed), SAT-3 underwater Fiber optics landing station, and National Fiber Optics Backbone were among Ghana Telecom's assets.
Statistics available clearly show that Vodafone's acquisition of Ghana Telecom increased the growth rate, resulting in superior market performance and a substantial increase in profitability. Profitability in 2007 (as Ghana Telecom) was - 33.82%, compared to 62.29% in 2009 (the year after Vodafone took over).
Another intriguing acquisition that had an impact on the Ghanaian economy began in November 1996, with the debut of the first GSM service by Scancom Limited under the brand name Spacefon. Mobile Telecommunications Network (MTN), Africa's largest mobile company, bought Investcom Ltd, which owned Scancom (GH) Ltd., the operators of Areeba in Ghana, in September 2007. MTN offered to buy Areeba’s parent firm Investcom for $5.5 billion as part of its emerging market growth strategy. Investcom had 4.9 million users throughout Africa, the Middle East, and Europe at the end of 2005. At the time, the Beirut-based corporation had mobile operations in Benin, Cyprus, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, Liberia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. MTN offered USD3.83 per Investcom share as well as USD2.08 in cash and 0.18 MTN shares for every Investcom share as an option.
In Ghana's telecom business, which has traditionally been driven by transformational M&A transactions, the number of subscribers or users has always mattered. From 2004 to 2016, M&A transactions in Ghana's telecom business were valued at $1.92 billion. Corporate mergers and acquisitions in this business have been motivated by the need to produce economies of scale as well as the convergence of services as consumers increasingly seek interoperability between their fixed-line and mobile devices.
Further consolidation is predicted, notably in Ghana, where the ailing GLO Network appears ripe for acquisition due to its shrinking subscriber base despite enormous investments in technological equipment and machinery and expanding its network across the country.
Clearly, no firm will penetrate a new market without scanning its environment to weigh its cost and benefits. Evaluate three (3) possible environmental factors these foreign entities might have checked before penetrating the telecom business in Ghana. 
Answer

